# Setting Things Up

We'll be using the Python programming language for the tutorials in this book.  Why Python?  Several scripting languages are used by data scientists and developers of data products---R for statistical analysis and data visualization, Perl for text processing and shell scripting, JavaScript for creating data-driven web apps---but none of these can do *all* of those things well.  Python is a popular, easy-to-learn language that can be used for all the different tasks that we'll explore in this book, and it has become the go-to tool for many data projects.

We'll use a number of extensions to the core Python language (called *packages*) such as `NumPy` and `pandas`.  Instead of installing these all manually, I strongly recommend that you download the Anaconda Scientific Python Distribution provided for free for Mac or Windows by Continuum at `http://www.continuum.io/`.  Anaconda includes Python itself with a large bundle of packages commonly used by data scientists.  Conveniently, it makes its own copy of Python, so if you are already using another version of Python for other projects, the Anaconda installation will not delete or alter it.

You'll interact with Python via the IPython shell, also included with Anaconda, or by writing scripts in a text editor such as Notepad++, Atom, Brackets, Sublime, or vi.  Anaconda includes a free Python IDE called Spyder that integrates a text editor and an IPython console, which you might find valuable.  (Users of R will find it very similar to the exceptional RStudio IDE.)

Continuum offers Anaconda with your choice of Python 2 and Python 3.  I developed these tutorials using Python 3.5.0, so if you are using any version of Python 3, they should work fine.  Where possible I will try to use code that's compatible with Python 2, but I won't guarantee it.  If you find any bugs that break Python 2, please let me know and I'll update the book's code to resolve them.

You may work on the tutorials in this book in any order.  However, for those new to Python, you'll find that the earlier ones serve as an introduction to Python programming that you won't want to skip, and the later tutorials are more challenging.