# Preface 

"There is a lot to data processing that is not data science" (Provost & Fawcett, 2013).  **Data mungeing** (also called data wrangling, data hygiene, or data preparation) is the art of taking data from the wild and civilizing it so that it is integrated and well-structured for the sort of analysis you want to conduct.  Since big data is often about analytical re-use of data originally collected by someone else for some other purpose, data mungeing can take up the majority of a data scientist's time -- over 50%, in fact, according to a recent *NYT* article (Lohr, 2014).  It is ad hoc and improvisational work, though, rather than a science.

> "A good data munger excels at turning coffee into regular expressions and parsers, implemented in a high-level scripting language of choice (often Perl, Python, even Javascript). This is problem solving with programming, and quite different from statistics.  An aspiration toward excellence... is rarely rewarded, and often punished." (Driscoll, 2009)

If data mungeing is an art rather than a science, we cannot teach students to work with data by simply abstracting a set of general principles.  The hypothesis behind this book is that, instead, the most effective approach might be to train the instincts by working through problems in hands-on tutorials.  When complete, this book will include fifteen case studies---suitable for a 15-week university course---of increasingly "interesting" data mungeing problems.

The term **open data** denotes a movement toward greater public sharing of data, especially of data collected by government or government-funded institutions.  Recently there has been an explosion of great new data sources, often with well-structured and well-documented REST APIs, available from sites like `www.data.gov`, and this has turned out to be a goldmine for professors of analytics classes.  No longer need we grade the same student papers and presentations using the same old sample datasets that have been bouncing around for years!  Teaching students to retrieve data via HTTP and JSON opens up a whole world of current, real-world data that they can use in coursework and in business.  Open data is diverse, timely, and (presumably) stable enough that these tutorials will not become obsolete before they're back from the printer.

Gradually through 15 miniature data mungeing projects, readers will be exposed to Python and several of its most useful libraries for data science, including iPython and pandas.  If I do it right, you'll be so interested in what we're doing with the data, that you'll learn Python without even noticing it.  I don't want this to be a Python book that happens to cover data, but rather a data mungeing book that happens to use Python.